THE MACHINE — corp-dev offer film · built 2026-08-13 (v15 — sized for the phone)

SIZED FOR THE DISPLAY, NOT THE FILE  (v15 — the important one)
  Paul, 2026-08-13, after posting: "very little on the video is going to be
  legible on either desktop or mobile... we need all of the text to be legible
  and can take up a lot more room on screen."

  Measured against where the piece plays. LinkedIn's 16:9 stage is ~219pt tall
  on a phone and ~347pt on desktop, so a design unit is worth almost nothing:

                          WAS                       NOW
      hero word     7.7% ht = 17pt phone     11.9% = 26pt
      pill          2.3%    =  5pt            4.9% = 11pt
      loop chip     2.0%    =  4pt            4.7% = 10pt
      ident caption 2.1%    =  5pt            4.0% =  9pt
      value payoff  5.7%    = 12pt            8.9% = 20pt

  Under ~3% of frame height is decoration, not copy. Half of this piece was
  decoration on a phone and I had never once looked at it at the size it plays.
  Rendering at 1920x1080 and reviewing at 1920x1080 is reviewing a poster and
  shipping a stamp.

  THE RATIO CHANGED, NOT JUST THE SCALE. Pills grew 2.3x and words 1.5x, because
  a global multiplier preserves exactly the hierarchy that was failing.

  CONSEQUENCES, because bigger type does not fit the old picture:
   · PILLS WRAP. "WE WRITE IT, WE NEGOTIATE IT" is 47% of the frame on one line
     at this size. Capped at a third of the width, long labels fold to two lines
     and read as blocks rather than bars.
   · THE WIDE LAYOUTS WERE REBUILT. The old set counterweighted horizontally —
     words left, rail right — which needs width the 16:9 frame has and height it
     does not. Words now take a full-width band and the pill mass moves above
     and below it; the per-beat variety is the SHAPE of that mass.
     1 Thesis two above one below · 2 Sourcing arc above, words low ·
     3 Valuation arc below, words high · 4 Offer & Close one above two below ·
     5 Integration an L, a stacked pair left and one right.
   · THE CLOSING PHRASE gets its own size (0.78em) or it wraps to leave "you"
     alone on a line.

THE GREEN GOES ON THE STAGE NAME
  Paul: "the words, like we run Thesis >>> Thesis should be green, not run.. in
  all of these scenarios." Corrects an earlier read of mine — I had put the mint
  on the verb on the theory that WE RUN it was the claim. But "we run" is the
  same five characters on every beat: colouring the constant and greying the
  variable emphasises the part that never changes. The colour now arrives WITH
  the typing, because the stage name is the word being typed.

A REAL CSS BUG THIS SURFACED
  Percentage padding resolves against the containing block's WIDTH — including
  padding-TOP and padding-BOTTOM. So `padding-top: 30%` on a 1920x1080 stage is
  576px, which is 53% of the HEIGHT, and the same declaration lands somewhere
  different again in 1:1 and 4:5. Every vertical word station in this piece was
  mis-set, and differently mis-set per format; it only ever looked right because
  I tuned the numbers by eye against one frame. They are pixels off the frame
  height now, so "high" means the same thing in every aspect ratio.

RENDER ROBUSTNESS
  The container restarted twice during a 25-minute render and took the whole run
  with it. render.mjs now retries a timed-out screenshot (up to 4x, 90s ceiling)
  and takes --resume, which keeps frames already on disk and skips only the
  screenshot — the clock still advances through every tick, because determinism
  depends on the order.

WHAT IS IN THIS FOLDER — EVERY CUT IS SILENT
  SMBX-corpdev-offering-16x9.mp4   1920×1080 · 60fps · 29.20s · 6.6MB  ← POST THIS
  (1:1 and 4:5 removed — LinkedIn pillarboxes anything that is not 16:9, and
   their layouts have not been re-cut for the larger type. Ask if you need them.)
  smbx-machine.mp4 / .webm         web weight, 3.0MB / 2.3MB    website
  smbx-machine-poster.jpg          the mark — a legitimate static hero
  MachineFilm.tsx                  site component (sound prop defaults FALSE)
  MARKERS.txt / MARKERS.csv        cue sheet for scoring to picture
  LINKEDIN-POST.md                 caption + provenance + posting notes
  offer-machine.html · render.mjs · score.py · cues-*.json

  NO AUDIO STREAM IN ANY DELIVERED FILE. Paul, 2026-08-13: "let's make
  everything without any music, i have my own." score.py still generates the
  designed score if it is ever wanted; nothing ships with it.

VALUATION, NOT EVALUATION — AND WHERE THE ERROR ACTUALLY LIVED
  Paul, 2026-08-13: "it isn Valuation not evaluation. as in how much a business
  is worth. My ICP will catch this."

  THE DECK SPEC SAID "Evaluation" TOO. The video was faithfully restating a word
  that was wrong at its source: the content law held the two in step and
  therefore PROPAGATED the error rather than catching it. Worth writing down,
  because it is a real limit of the rule — a check that collateral matches its
  spec cannot tell you the spec is wrong. Only a reader who knows the trade can,
  and in this practice that reader is the buyer.

  Corrected in BOTH:
    specs/smbx-corpdev-offering.deck.mts  §pages[1].bullets — the canon
    offer-machine.html                     the beat word and the ring station

  ⚠ ANYTHING ELSE BUILT FROM THAT SPEC INHERITS THE OLD WORD UNTIL REBUILT —
  the carousel and smbx-corpdev-offering-pricing.deck.mts both restate this
  bullet. Check the website copy too; this grep only covered specs/ and the
  motion piece.

  Timing consequence: "Valuation" is one character shorter than "Evaluation",
  so that beat types and un-types ~100ms faster and the piece is 29.20s rather
  than 29.30s. Everything after that beat moved up by the same 100ms, so
  MARKERS.txt was regenerated. THE TEMPO IS UNCHANGED — the drop-to-mark gap is
  still 7.625s, so 125.902 BPM still puts both on bar lines.

SOURCE OF CONTENT
  specs/smbx-corpdev-offering.deck.mts
  Every word and every pill RESTATES copy that deck already carries; each pill
  in offer-machine.html cites its deck line in a trailing comment. The ident
  caption is the deck's kicker verbatim. The tag completes the standing words
  into the deck cover's promise, verbatim. NO FIGURES appear in the motion —
  150 / $5B+ / 0 stay on still pages where they carry their sources
  (PRACTICE_RECORD.md).

THE SOUND, AND WHY IT IS NOT PLACED BY EAR
  The picture emits its own cue sheet. Because the render runs on a frozen
  clock, performance.now() inside the page IS virtual time, so the piece can
  record the exact millisecond of every event it contains — the throw, the
  landing, each of the six glyphs of the wordmark, all 67 keystrokes, every
  pill (carrying its own CSS transition delay AND its x position on screen),
  the six stations of the loop, the close, the mark. 127 cues.

  score.py reads that file and synthesises to it. Nothing is nudged against a
  video. Consequences worth keeping:
    · measured after the fact, audio onsets land within 5ms of their cues —
      a quarter of one frame at 60fps;
    · re-time the animation and re-run: the score re-times with it, because
      there is one set of numbers and the picture owns them;
    · pill blips are PANNED BY THEIR x ON SCREEN and the six stations are
      panned around the ring, so the stereo image IS the composition. Verified:
      the station balance runs +0.07 → +0.16 → +0.13 → +0.01 → -0.12 → -0.04,
      tracing the ring clockwise.

  Everything is generated from first principles — sines, noise, filters. No
  sample library, no licensed music, nothing to clear. A licensed bed can sit
  under this later without re-rendering a frame.

  Musically: A major pentatonic, open voicings, no third in the low register —
  confident and modal rather than major-sweet or minor-sad. Weight at the
  landing, air through the middle, warmth at the mark. A first pass left dead
  stretches at 15-17s and 22-25s (0.004 RMS against a 0.063 average); silence
  in an ident reads as a dropout, not as restraint, so a root-and-fifth drone
  now runs from the first beat to the end and holds the floor.

SCORING IT YOURSELF — SILENT / QUIET / MARKERS
  Paul, 2026-08-13, on the EDM mix: "your EDM is bad. make it quiet and I will
  mix something over it." Correct call. I was synthesising a genre mix without
  being able to hear it, judging the result off RMS curves and loudness
  meters — which will tell you the ARC is right and cannot tell you whether it
  SOUNDS good. Those are different questions and only one of them is
  measurable from here.

  So the handoff:
    -SILENT.mp4   no audio stream. Drop it on a timeline and score it clean.
    -QUIET.mp4    the DESIGNED score (not the EDM) at -26 LUFS — roughly 16dB
                  under a loud master. The landing, the glyph ticks and the six
                  stations still register as texture under a track without
                  fighting it. Delete the audio track if you don't want it.
    score-quiet.wav / score-norm.wav   that bed alone, at -26 and -14 LUFS.

  Both were built by REMUXING — `-c:v copy`, audio swapped, picture never
  re-encoded. The video stream in every variant is bit-identical to the master.

  MARKERS.txt / MARKERS.csv is the useful part. Every musical event with its
  millisecond, its 60fps timecode and its frame number — not estimates, the
  exact frame each event was drawn on, identical on every re-render. Plus the
  tempo that fits the picture:

      125.902 BPM · bar 1906.25ms · anchor the grid on 19.013s

  because the ring closes at 19.013 and the mark lands at 26.638, exactly four
  bars apart at that tempo. Score to that grid and the drop lands on the frame
  the loop closes, and the final hit lands on the logo, without nudging
  anything.

  THE EDM MIX IS STILL IN THIS FOLDER (below) — ignore it or delete it.

THE FLASH — WHAT REPLACED THE TRAVELLING SHIMMER
  Paul called this out twice and both times I answered the wrong question.
  v8: "the swoosh only looks like a glitch" — I read that as the box's EDGES
  being visible and made the box the size of the screen. v12: "these shimmers
  that slide across are a little bit cheesy... more of a glow in across the
  page and fade out, like a flashing light and not just a line that runs across
  the screen."

  The note was never about edges. A translucent band travelling left to right
  is a WIPE, and a wipe is a transition effect, not light. Light does not cross
  a room in a straight line at a readable speed. It IGNITES somewhere, floods
  outward, is brightest at its source, and is gone before you have finished
  registering it.

  So there is no gradient band, no travel and no direction left. lightPass()
  takes a position, a peak brightness and a room lift, and puts a radial bloom
  at the thing that just happened — the X's seat (offset XDX from centre, not
  the middle of the frame), or the closed ring. It snaps up in 90ms, pushes
  outward across the frame as it decays, and is gone in half a second. Under it
  one frame of the WHOLE ROOM lifting, which is the part a travelling band can
  never do: light arrives everywhere at once, not one column at a time.

  Measured, frame mean luma:
    landing   27 → 50 peak → back under 30 by 0.97s
    ring      28 → 43 peak → back under 28 by 0.83s
  The first tuning peaked at 65 and was still washed at 0.9s — a bloom, not a
  flash. Power 0.50→0.36, blur 34→30px, falloff 820→500ms.

  The score follows: the old sound panned hard left to hard right because the
  picture travelled. A flash does not pan, it ARRIVES — centred, fast up, gone
  with the light.

REMOVED IN v12
  The EDM mix. Paul: "your EDM is bad. make it quiet and I will mix something
  over it." Correct call — I was synthesising a genre mix without being able to
  hear it, judging it off RMS curves and loudness meters, which tell you the
  ARC is right and cannot tell you whether it SOUNDS good. score.py --edm still
  works if it is ever wanted; the mp4s are gone.

AUTOPLAY ONLY WORKS MUTED — THIS IS NOT A SETTING
  Every current browser refuses to start audio without a user gesture, and
  iOS Safari refuses to autoplay at all unless the element is muted AND
  playsInline. There is no configuration that gets autoplay and sound
  together. MachineFilm.tsx therefore starts silent and OFFERS sound, and the
  film was built to read with the sound off — it is all type and figure, no
  voiceover, nothing load-bearing in the audio. The score is a reward for
  unmuting, not a requirement.
  It also catches the play() rejection (Low Power Mode, Data Saver, per-site
  settings all still refuse) and falls back to the poster with a control,
  because a hero that silently fails to a black rectangle is worse than one
  that never tried. prefers-reduced-motion gets the poster and no autoplay.

WHICH RATIO FOR LINKEDIN — 16:9, MEASURED OFF THE LIVE POSTS
  I got this wrong TWICE by reading published LinkedIn spec guides: first 4:5
  ("most feed real estate"), then 1:1 ("clean on both"). Paul posted each and
  each was boxed. The third answer came from measuring his own screenshots
  instead of reading anybody's guide.

  LINKEDIN RENDERS FEED VIDEO INSIDE A 16:9 STAGE, ON BOTH SURFACES:
    desktop feed        player 617 x 347  = 1.778   1:1 file shown 349 x 347
    mobile immersive    stage  921 x 518  = 1.778   1:1 file shown 517 x 517
  Two independent screenshots, both matching a 16:9 stage to within a pixel,
  and in both the container did NOT resize to the video — which is what proves
  the stage is fixed rather than adaptive. The file's own metadata was honest
  throughout (1080x1080, square pixels, no rotation), so this was never an
  encode fault.

  The "4:5 wins the feed" advice everywhere online describes LinkedIn's
  VERTICAL VIDEO SURFACE, not an ordinary post from a personal profile. Those
  are different players. A spec guide cannot tell you which one your post lands
  in; a screenshot of your own post can.

  Filling the stage also fixes legibility, because the alternative is the frame
  being scaled DOWN to fit inside it:
                       word shown   pill shown   (mobile immersive)
       16:9              40px         12.0px
       1:1               28px          8.6px
       4:5               24px          7.3px

  NOTHING WAS RE-RENDERED FOR THIS. The 16:9 master has existed since the first
  build; it is now simply the one to post. It also carries an explicit
  display_aspect_ratio 16:9 so no player has to infer it.

  THE LESSON, AND IT COST THREE POSTS: for anything that renders inside someone
  else's player, MEASURE THE PLAYER. Published specs describe what a platform
  accepts, not what it does with it.

SQUARE IS PART OF THE PORTRAIT FAMILYSQUARE IS PART OF THE PORTRAIT FAMILY, NOT THE WIDE ONE. `PORTRAIT` is now
  fmt[1] >= fmt[0]. Given the 16:9 treatment a square frame would take the
  horizontal counterweight layouts — words left, rail right — into a frame with
  no width to spare, at S=0.75: the same illegible-pills failure the 4:5 cut had
  before it was recomposed. Scale multiplier is 1.24 for square against 1.34 for
  4:5, because a square frame is shorter and needs slightly less type.

  Verified: 1758 frames, 127 cues, edge-scan clean apart from the route-2 wires
  that are drawn from the frame edge on purpose.

4:5 IS A RECOMPOSITION, NOT A CROP
  Scale is struck off frame WIDTH, so a 1080-wide feed cut rendered everything
  a quarter smaller than the 1920 master while the frame got 25% taller —
  pills at 14px, unreadable on a phone, marooned in dead space. The feed cut
  needs type proportionally LARGER than the master's. It carries its own five
  layouts (SPEC.tall): the same five CHARACTERS — mass above / stair / split /
  stack below / flanking — expressed vertically, with every pill centre inside
  x 26-70 so the widest label still clears both margins. Same words, same
  citations, different picture. The loop's radius is larger too (205 vs 168),
  because a third of the width is two thirds of a 16:9 height but barely a
  quarter of a 4:5 one.

  PROOF THE PIPELINE HOLDS ACROSS FORMATS: both formats render 1758 frames and
  their cue sheets agree on all 127 cues to the millisecond — zero mismatches.
  One score fits both.

HOW TO RE-RENDER
  PW=<path-to-chromium> node render.mjs wide 60      # or: tall 60
  python3 score.py cues-wide.json score.wav
  ffmpeg -y -i score.wav -af loudnorm=I=-14:TP=-1.5:LRA=11 -c:a pcm_s16le score-norm.wav
  ffmpeg -y -framerate 60 -i frames-wide/%05d.png -c:v libx264 -crf 17 \
    -preset slow -pix_fmt yuv420p -movflags +faststart <out>.mp4
  Formats: wide (1920×1080) · square (1080×1080) · tall (1080×1350).

WHY THE RENDER IS DETERMINISTIC, AND WHY THAT WAS THE WHOLE FIX
  v1–v5 were CAPTURED — Playwright recorded the page off a wall clock. Measured
  on this container that page ran at 2.4fps through the ident and ~18fps after:
  the 940ms throw was rendered as TWO frames and a jump. No easing curve can
  fix a browser that is not being given frames, and that starvation — not the
  choreography — is what "the transitions are very rough" was describing.
  render.mjs pauses the clock (CDP Emulation.setVirtualTimePolicy), advances it
  by exactly one frame, screenshots, repeats. --disable-threaded-animations is
  required: transform and opacity otherwise animate on the compositor thread,
  which ignores virtual time and simply does not move. Verified against a known
  linear translate before use. Consequence worth keeping: the same file renders
  the same frames every time, so a change request produces the piece plus the
  change, not a differently-janky take.

MEASUREMENTS THIS CUT DEPENDS ON (both PNGs scanned, not eyeballed)
  lockup 1584×396 · mint X at x 795–1107, y 36–368
                  · centre 0.60038W 0.51010H · glyph height 0.84091H
  xmark   346×364 · glyph inset 4/3/4/3 → 0.98077 of image height
  letter boundaries (white glyph gaps, /1584):
      0 · 0.2446 · 0.4100 · 0.5227 · 0.7121 · 0.8371 · 1
  The thrown X lands on the lockup's own X to the pixel, so the reveal hands
  off under a hard clip edge with nothing crossfading. 0.5227 is the b's own
  right edge — 795 (the X's left arm) sliced the b down its bowl and the third
  step read "smt".

PAUL'S NOTES, 2026-08-12, AND WHERE EACH LANDED
  "first 2 seconds of nothing happening can be cut off"
      → fonts inlined (were fetched from Google), throw starts on frame one,
        veil down in 240ms. First visible frame is the X entering the frame.
  "start with the X being thrown in and landing in place, then the rest of the
   word being typed into place from left to right"
      → the throw, then the rule struck outward from the landing, then the
        wordmark stepped through its six measured glyph boundaries.
  "every transition needs to be smoothed out"
      → deterministic render (above); exits given their own full duration
        before the DOM is cleared; one continuous 46s camera keyframe replacing
        per-beat transforms that killed each other mid-flight.
  "the logo does not need the brackets"
      → corner handles removed from the ident as well as the close.

PAUL'S NOTES, 2026-08-13, AND WHERE EACH LANDED
  "we have this whole frame, why is it so small?"
      → ident lockup 560 → 900 units (39% → 62% of frame), close 690 → 1080
        (48% → 75%), words 52 → 62, pills 17 → 19, kicker 15 → 17.
  "every one of the arms is in the same position, there should be some
   variation, i have said that many times now" · "every idea has the same
   physical layout, monotonous"
      → THE VARIABLE WAS WRONG. v5 rotated the wire ROUTE and the TIMING while
        all five beats put a pill at 72/24, one at 78/62, one at 20/72 and the
        words dead centre — the same picture, differently drawn. The layout
        itself is the variable now, words and pills composed as a balanced
        pair: 1 words LEFT + right rail · 2 words LOW + overhead bus · 3 words
        CENTRE + corners · 4 words RIGHT + left rail · 5 words HIGH + floor
        row. And the wires are struck from the words' MEASURED bounding box
        (measureAnchor) instead of the constant {left:355, right:645}, which
        was the other half of why every beat made the same shape.
  "Only 2 on the globe doesn't paint a picture of a closed loop, a circle of
   execution"
      → six stations on the rim — Thesis · Sourcing · Evaluation · Offer &
        Close · Integration · Value creation — lit in turn by an arc that
        travels round and MEETS ITSELF at the top. It then resolves into the
        two engagement names. Moved from a mid-piece break to after every beat:
        shown early it would have spoiled the two beats still to come.
  "What does this line supposed to do? there is no purpose, it is not drawing
   attention to anything..?"
      → it was a grey rule lying across the frame through the logo for two
        seconds. It is a SHOCKWAVE now: mint, 5px, struck outward from the
        landing with a grid flare behind it, gone inside half a second. A line
        that persists is a frame; a line that snaps out of an impact is a
        force. Nothing frames the mark now — at 62% it does not need it.
  "The swoosh through the logo only looks like a glitch and not a feature.. it
   should be full screen and cinematic"
      → the old sweep was sized to the ELEMENT: a screen-blended rectangle laid
        over the logo whose own edges were visible, which is what a compositing
        glitch looks like. lightPass() spans the stage and past it, is
        transparent at both ends so there is no edge anywhere, peaks at 0.19
        white (the first full-screen attempt peaked at 0.58 and screen-blended
        to a grey wash across a third of the frame), and is blurred 11px.

PAUL'S NOTES, 2026-08-13 (second pass)
  "let's just say our catch phrase, 'we run the process for you' and that's it,
   nothing else needs to be said"
      → the tag was "the process for you — thesis, sourcing, diligence,
        close." The list has already BEEN the last twenty seconds of the piece;
        restating it in eight words is the piece explaining itself. Still the
        deck cover's own promise, still verbatim — just the clause that carries
        it. tagHold up from 1400 to 2300 so the phrase gets the room the list
        was taking.
  "highlight run only"
      → the whole standing phrase "We run " was mint. The verb is the claim.
        `standLit: 'run'` marks the one word that takes the colour.
  "at the 28 sec mark let's remove the left to right shimmer... we can leave
   the slight glow up at the very end"
      → lightPass removed from endCard. A sweep on the ident is the impact
        still ringing; a sweep on the close is a lens flare on a full stop.
        The ident keeps its pass; the close is the mark arriving and breathing.

PAUL'S NOTE, 2026-08-13 (third pass)
  "not sure i like this, maybe we can say something about tieing it all
   together to create value"  [the loop's resolution]
      → it was two product rows — smbXCorpDev · thesis to close, and Premium ·
        and the first hundred days. A price list at the emotional top of the
        piece: the ring has just closed and the answer to "so what" was a menu.
        It is now the deck's own sentence for exactly that, verbatim from the
        caption of specs/smbx-corpdev-offering.deck.mts:
            "A deal is not finished when it closes. It is finished when the
             thing you underwrote is actually running."
        — which is the argument for the whole ring, since value creation is its
        last station. Setup quiet and small, payoff bright and large, and
        RUNNING takes the mint, answering the RUN of the catch phrase that
        follows it. The two product names live in the post caption and on the
        deck where a reader can act on them; they were never doing work here.

  NOTE ON THE "nothing after you" NOTE: already shipped in v9 — the copy Paul
  was watching was the v8 download. From v10 the delivered file carries its
  version in the name (SMBX-corpdev-offering-v10.mp4) so two cuts can never be
  confused again; the studio copy keeps the stable name.

FOUND WHILE VERIFYING v9 — THE GHOST, IN A NEW PLACE
  #line fades over 520ms and every hand-off OUT of it was waiting less than
  that, so the mark began arriving under a phrase still on screen — the same
  defect Paul caught in v2, moved. All three exits now clear their own full
  duration (640 / 600 / 660ms), and the line's text is emptied besides, so
  there is nothing left that COULD ghost if a duration is ever retuned. The
  general rule, and it has now been broken twice: AN EXIT IS NOT AN
  INSTRUCTION, IT IS A DURATION. Nothing may begin inside it.

STILL OPEN
  · square (1080×1080) cut not rendered — render.mjs takes it as an argument.
  · The LinkedIn caption's figures were NOT re-verified: PRACTICE_RECORD.md
    lives on Paul's machine and file staging failed (untrusted_device — the
    desktop app's sign-in went stale). Every claim is carried verbatim out of
    a caption that WAS verified when the deck shipped, so nothing new is
    asserted — but carried-from-verified is not verified-today. Sign in and
    run preflight before this posts. See LINKEDIN-POST.md §What has NOT been
    re-verified.
  · The ghost-character fix and this render harness should be upstreamed to
    scripts/studio/machine.html in the repo that deploys smbx.ai.
