built      2026-08-19 · the OFFER carousel, PORTAL-LIGHT (Stepped Portal)
pages      8 (consolidated same day from 11; Paul: "too many pages, we can
           consolidate and tell a better story") — cover · the problem · smbX Core overview · SEVEN PHASE PAGES
           merged into FOUR VERB PAGES —
           FIND (thesis+sourcing) · DECIDE (valuation+structure) · CLOSE
           (diligence, its own page: "where most deals come apart") · OWN
           (integration+value creation, the Premium page) · the CTA close.
           Phase sentences stay VERBATIM from Landing.tsx as bullets.
audience   Cover upper-right, on the plate in tint: "Outsourced Corporate
           Development for Private Equity and Family Offices" — the slot the
           logo vacated. First render drew it in body-grey on the green steps
           (illegible); plate text takes the plate label colour.

expanded   Paul, 2026-08-19: "the content seems pretty sparse... can we talk
           more about the processes in each and give the viewer a better sense
           of 'this is how we run corp dev'". The five-page version named the
           phases in one bullet list; this walks each one.

           PHASE COPY IS VERBATIM from client/src/practice/Landing.tsx PHASES —
           the approved site copy, not rewritten. A reader who sees the post
           and then the site must hear one voice, so the carousel quotes the
           site rather than paraphrasing it. If the site copy changes, this
           deck is regenerated, never edited independently.

cta        Paul: "The CTA page is also super boring". The two engagements are
           now two PLATES side by side — phase range, name, what it covers —
           so the choice is visible at a glance instead of read as a list.
           Premium carries a green top edge as the fuller option. Proof line
           sits ABOVE the action bar: it is the reason to press, and under the
           bar it collided with the signature logo.

renamed    smbXCorpDev -> smbX Core · smbXCorpDev Premium -> smbX Premium.
           STILL CARRYING THE OLD NAMES (Claude Code's side of ONE CLONE):
             client/src/practice/Landing.tsx   (the LIVE SITE, incl. PHASES)
             server/index.ts · house/assets.ts · CLAUDE.md (product naming)
             studio/specs/hs-teardown-preview.deck.mts
             studio/collateral/smbx-corpdev-offering-machine/2026-08-13/*
           The site and this carousel disagree until those are updated.

cover      Three proof figures in a hairline-ruled row in the copy panel, not
           a hero numeral — the spec's own rule ("every hero number carries
           its comparison"; 150 acquisitions has no honest baseline).
spec       studio/specs/smbx-corpdev-offering.deck.mts
builder    scripts/studio/figure-deck.py --ground portal-light
note       PIL raster. The PRICING variant was deliberately NOT rebuilt.

2026-08-19 later · THE MOBILE PASS (Paul: "none of this text is going to be
legible... think of it as mobile"). The arithmetic: LinkedIn renders 1080px
at ~360px on a phone — divide by 3. Body was 21px (reads as 7px), sources
13px (reads as 4px). New scale, canvas px: heads 68 · body 40 · bullets
40/38 · kickers 26 · sources 22 · card notes 30. Copy cut to ≤45 words a
page. Cover logo corrected to phi-squared of ITS OWN panel (portal 520 →
199px, not the monolith's 228). Cards closer carries its logo in the chrome;
the bar owns the foot.
