built      2026-08-20 · MONOLITH, ONE PAGE — the card for Paul's post on the
           volume/value paradox and the size premium.
spec       studio/specs/valuation-gap.post.mts
builder    python3 scripts/studio/figure-deck.py <spec> --card
             --ground monolith-dark        (PIL raster; the Mac renders the
           same spec through build-onepager.mts)
NEW        --card is new today. The register says Monolith and Portal each
           arrive as a carousel OR a single image; only the carousel had a
           renderer here, and the two one-page cards filed 2026-08-19 came
           from a throwaway script. That render is kept now.

NUMERAL    40% MORE PER DOLLAR, not "2.8 turns of EBITDA" (Paul: "people may
           not know what that means"). Turns are trade language; a percentage
           on a dollar of profit needs no glossary and says the same thing.
           DERIVATION, registered here because a card has no Derivations
           section: 9.8 / 7.0 = 1.40. Nothing rounded — both multiples are GF
           Data's own.
           A DOLLAR FIGURE WAS CONSIDERED AND REJECTED. "$28M on $10M of
           EBITDA" is more visceral and it is a trap: GF Data's bands are
           defined by ENTERPRISE VALUE, and $10M of EBITDA at 9.8x is $98M —
           inside the SUB-$100M band, not the large one. The illustration
           would quietly contradict the series it cites. The ratio carries no
           such assumption.

SOURCE     Fine print (Paul: "put the sources as small fine print") — 20px
           mono rather than the 22px source tier. The floor says nothing
           under 20px and this sits ON it: recessive enough to read as
           attribution, never small enough to be unreadable.

LOGO       At the BOTTOM, replacing the smbx.ai wordmark on the right of the
           byline strip, at 38px (Paul: "improve the logo appearance.. it
           gets lost and just put it at the bottom instead of the site
           address"). The small top-right mark it supersedes was 30px on a
           green plate — exactly where it was getting lost. One mark per
           card, on the quietest surface, at a size that reads.

FIGURE     VERIFIED before it went on the card, and it holds — with two
           precisions the post leaves loose, both now ON the card:
           · GF Data, platform buyouts, FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 2025. Large
             platforms ($100-500M TEV) 9.8x TTM EBITDA; sub-$100M 7.0x. Gap
             2.8x, up from 2.4x at the half, long-run average 2.6x.
           · The spread is measured by SIZE, not by quality. "A-tier vs the
             rest" is a reading of it, not what the series reports, so the
             card says large and small and lets the argument interpret.
           · GF Data sells the database it reports from — named on the card.

NOT ON IT  The $1.2 trillion. It checks out but is narrower than the post
           implies: US M&A value over the FIRST FIVE MONTHS of 2026, volume
           down 4%. A one-page card carries one idea, and a second figure
           needs a second source line. It stays in the post copy.

THE LINE   Buy-side throughout. The post has one passage addressed to sellers
           about closing the gap; the card reads from the acquirer's seat.

TWO GEOMETRY CORRECTIONS, both in the renderer with comments:
           1. The numeral block rides 30px above the handoff's 70/252/278 and
              THE LABEL IS ONE LINE (~15 chars). The figure's head occupies
              x 753-869 from y 302 down, so at floor-corrected type any label
              that wraps runs into the face — the first render read
              "...PLATFORMS / EAR".
           2. Bar and label align with the NUMERAL, not the handoff's indent.
              That indent was cut for a wide numeral ("47%"); on a narrow one
              it pushes a one-line label past the plate's right edge.

PROCESS    SAVED, so the next card does not repeat the fixes (Paul: "lets save
           that process so we dont have to fix next time"):
           · FORMATS.md §2.3 — the copy budget as a table, the
             figure-translation rule, fine-print source, foot logo, the two
             plate-geometry corrections.
           · studio/specs/_template.post.mts — that section as a fillable
             spec, with the budget beside each slot. Start there.
           · The renderer now WARNS instead of clipping: it names an overrun
             in pixels ("copy overruns the note by 274px") and clamps a wide
             numeral to the plate, warning if even that will not hold it.
             Tested by deliberately overrunning both.
